no real talk okay you just saw
the new episode of wicked tuna
now it's time for wicked tuna
real talk with captain's weigh
in on their week of fishing i'm
your host my name is mike sulka
joining us this time captain
Tyler McLaughlin of the pinwheel
captain TJ out of Hot Tuna and
captain Dave Marciano of the
hard merchandise guys thanks for
joining us in the last episode
only two weeks of fishing left
here the pressure is on to land
the final paychecks before the
season closes it all comes down
to whether the tuna are at the
right spot you choose to fish
and at this point in the game
decisions need to pay off so for
Tyler plots bank came up empty
this week had a big decision to
make about where to go let's
take a look
what we're doing here i have no
idea like nothing here kinda
like the spot like we are only
anything about this you don't I
your piss-poor attitude i know
but if they're not anal about
where you are don't touching it
could be a whole day behind the
fleet up because it was one moon
do i want to add here badly
staying here is a complete waste
of time but Stephen around is
going to cost me more money and
fuel so I need to make sure that
i picked the right spot either
way I'm taking a chance but I
think I know what we're gonna do
no tuna here jr. we've got to go
to fippennies to pull it up to
15 each
we get all of this spot
with all the ways you want to
god i really like this business
plan i really do argue that's
her anger and get out here
all right Tyler start of the
week so you're gonna go to
platts and you made the decision
pretty quick that wasn't gonna
work out headed to fippennies
instead
how'd you make the decision what
went into it you know it's been
my honey hole all year it's been
productive for me but life was
gone the whales were going on
the bait was gone and we needed
a change
how can you tell because you
don't want to be chasing the the
fish around how do you tell the
hey this is dead vs this is
gonna live it up pretty soon you
know we're fishing every day we
kind of get the pattern down and
get the routine when the fish
wanna roll through and there was
nothing going on there and it
was best we got out of there
when i looked around I didn't
see a single vote for miles i do
i posted in the wrong spot day
there you are you're out on
fippennies you're just doing
your thing there's nobody around
for miles and all the sudden
here comes Tyler steaming on in
let's take a look at either
right here he's the one playing
follow-the-leader Leda who is a
leader
yeah maybe you can't blame the
kid look at it to get got fish
the way we were catching fish I
debate John going to find him
this season may come down to him
and I do get out at the last day
of the season just like an
old-school boxing match with
Marciano you know the story
there right Rocky Marciano the
undefeated Jeff to be defeated a
few years
hey I want you to stand by the
committee shirts that pull it
out of me a bit here
I don't think that one kid but I
hope we get to me I did happen
Tyler here definitely puts the
pressure on but Jay and I can
handle it
we've been handling it all
season you're out their fifties
is not a boat around for miles
and kind of a bunch of fish that
we got lucky we follow the fish
on fippennies and for a few days
we had it to ourselves and
that's the game really out there
you know you hope to keep it as
long as you kid to yourself you
didn't seem too concerned but
when Tyler show I mean you're
the one in the lead and that's
what I gotta feel it different
for you
yeah i know we're happy with
that and you don't believe
that's not my primary focus but
you know what we were on a roll
we're catchin fish will take it
when it comes it's all tell your
kind of back in this again right
into that big fish towards the
end really get yourself back
into the competition was a
couple years ago that you were
leaving this thing and ended up
winning it how does it feel to
be back in the middle and the
hunt of it you know Travis and
we lost David's we've been
having a tough go just meet him
getting working but we're
catching fish together we get
we're starting at confidence and
it just about us being on top of
fish this fish under the boat
we're going to get them and
that's what's gonna come down at
the end our wall pinwheel hard
merchandise . com Kellyanne all
caught fish this week which is a
good thing things did not go so
well for hot too and the guys
fish round-the-clock had a
couple of hookups but
unfortunately lost both fish so
let's check it out
I'm pretty confident that me and
Mike get the job done
oh god there is 20 feet walk the
nice one that's in this field
and look up to that I hope so
yeah
ok
Michael walking back walking
back
what
Oh their got-damned I don't like
waking up in the middle of the
night to lose a fish now we
gotta start all over again get
back on anchor rebate regroup
so right now the stocks my
teacher I like seeing you guys
at night that's a different a
different look for the Hot Tuna
but we like to snuggle with each
other down here and you get our
beauty rest
yeah we eat a lot of family
meeting lots of you really you
really pretty close you guys
snuggling together at night
yeah Arriba oh yeah that's right
about something that all
yeah what uh what are the extra
challenges but dogs decide what
are the extra challenges
efficient at night arm
someone's always gonna be awake
you know a lot of times were
fishing in areas that are you
know I a lot of like traders and
stuff like that and big draggers
so that someone's going to pay
attention to the salary of the
fish are coming through there's
bait you know means it's it's
it's it's two jobs instead of
just one really you think you
think that the fact that it was
night did that did that factor
in it also tell the buckle now
now I mean like Jack was right
on the bite and and I mean it
happens when we have really
pulled hooks all year so we're
just like a little bit of a rut
right now more soon you've been
doing this a long long time I
don't mean that you know what to
say you're right maybe even your
own right
you look like you're doing
pretty well they share be done a
lot of night fishing
yeah we do with you know we all
try to but again the issue of my
boat is it's just J&I so we do
reach the point where you know
we step as much as we can but at
sublight we say you know what
let's bring the rods in so we
can get a couple hours you know
a good sleep we put the radar
reliable and I'll sleep in the
captain's chair and you know at
some point we gotta quit that's
the benefit though when you get
a boat like TJ's get the extra
guys you could try to keep
somebody up all night you know
keep one guy up two guys sleep
and you get a few fish to of
that though it's definitely
beneficial most of what we catch
probably eighty percent guys
right is daytime vision but if
there are fish around you can
get some bites at night so it is
worth doing well it's sort of
interesting for both you day
me and for you tell you both
started off the season with
three on your boat and end up
now with two when you look at TJ
with 4 on that boat
no excuses yeah yeah we will
have our jobs you know Michaels
like a cook but it's dad's there
you go yelling everything going
on with you ya know getting
benefits we share me hate
appreciate why the question
becomes how do you guys feel as
if my teachers got a pretty big
edge on you and Saul you do with
two does it does it add up
definitely doesn't mean he's got
a huge advantage over us you
know yeah we're all that great
trip yeah huge very well we saw
you pull the hook there right i
mean and not just the first one
but the second the second seemed
like it was going to be a really
big fish you really only have
one week left to go that the
boats a fourth-place you feel
like that one may have cost you
a shot at the title
I mean that was definitely a
bigger fish that first hook Pole
was kind of quick and it was
definitely you know we suspect
how big it was but the second
was a nice fish and you know we
definitely better put up or shut
up because it's coming down to
the end this week we saw
pinwheel and fishing vessel
tuna.com each catch-and-release
bluefin that were smaller than
the 73-inch limit the guys on
comm actually put a tag on their
short before releasing it look
like this don't come around I
can't see them going to the
right
don't let it go i love the play
do something go boom
you're a little guy that's
tagged him
Sondra gets this fish the boat
and we can see it's way too
small and I think below 73
inches we let go and that's all
about sustainability we did a
good deed of the very awarded
get the tags already going to go
pull the middle tag sometimes
when we released fish we tagged
it will help researchers know
the growth rate of the fish and
where they were released and
where they migrated to a lot of
information can be a team from
tagging a tunafish the real
journalism
already tagged fish
there's no question there's more
shorts right now and there was
in the beginning year I know the
fish are biting it's close to
the end of the season we're
gonna keep going until we're
back on top of the fleet
alright that's what you let's go
to get others to give ya guys we
saw Dave . com they're actually
hook up and gets a short decides
to tag it more so you've been
doing this a long time when do
you decide to tag one when we do
make that call ok it's a short
usually we if we have some tags
will check the fish lock the
location the size of fish
estimated size what time we
caught it and catch it release
it and that all goes into
building in the sustainability
of the resource the more
information we can gather the
better fishery managers managers
and scientists will be able to
help us as fishermen you know
help rebuild that resource
because you know without a doubt
fishermen these days and it's
been like that for a lot of
years definitely want to be part
of the solution not by the
problem at some point are you
gonna reap the benefit of the
information not just in terms of
sustaining the fishery but also
figuring out where they are at
all times exactly you know we we
would we find out the boy work
we do with tagging the more
information we find out about
their habits their behavior
stuff that we used to guess at
what now Doo tagging you know
the scientists can kinda prove
what we think are our theory
sometimes teach you how
important is the responsibility
factor hear me now how active
are all the fishermen in making
sure that was you follow it's
huge I mean the United States we
have such strict rules that we
abide by and and we're actually
sustainable fishery where
there's other countries foreign
countries that just kill
everything you know I mean like
they said it is crucial
information that we get from
these people to you know figure
out these fish their patterns
and then we can use that to
benefit us in the future try and
catch them
I'm sure it's pretty frustrating
Tyler you catch a fish and then
you gotta throw the thing back
it's not you've been fighting
the thing even for a little
while but just give you a sense
of hope of okay well that's
another fish that's gonna be
around long term for me to catch
down the road you know that I
grew up tag and fish and my dad
and something always did it was
like a fun thing to do and try
and see if you know where your
fish was going to go with its
growth rate was going to be but
for me it's like at least you're
getting bites at least the fish
are interested in what you're
putting out and soon enough a
big ones going to come by our
it's been a long time
I'm coming but yes the Kellyanne
finally caught their fifth fish
of the season after what a
four-week drought let's take a
look at that Ben rod a little
bigger than we thought you got a
good look at him now
yeah I think he's there I want
to take a look we haven't caught
a fish in three weeks we have
got all in the spin the game I
go forward
but John's help
the wheel
yeah
no truck just the gap get the
gap gap shredding gonna get
together gonna get a tear of
tell me why did you do that go
yeah
yeah right . he's good-looking
fish I nice color we are so
stopped slob pay their beta it's
a nice fish
I think it's a good son
hopefully we can keep it going
we're not going out for martinis
with commercial fishing for a
paycheck because I families need
money that's what we do 1230
yeah right let's go get his
brother and his sister
yeah guys Paula and has it all a
little bit with that boat this
year as we know now there's a
rumor and a legend that he's one
of the great bluefin fishermen
of the northeast of Gloucester
your dream it is he really just
asking tell you that it's really
showing you have aspired to be a
captain so many so i think i
know where you're going with the
answer but I how legitimate is
the legend Dave no wait look it
is legitimate
his family has a long history
catching bluefin Judah and what
policy experience is what we've
all experienced you know we
could all say it right you know
some years you can do nothing
wrong in some years you can do
nothing right and I think we've
all been there
yeah it was my right is
definitely the hydrogen this
year now be honest it is crew
it's not as crews fault right
now you know it's his decision
where they go into the serum
wheel makes the call and if what
i see his crew is definitely
right there backing him up and
he's not really giving them the
support they need
I'll tell you brought it up I
mean there's a difference
between Paul the captain and
Paul the mate
what is that difference we know
polynomial fishing me he worked
in the square into the boat and
he's great you know hooking fish
reeling them in harpooning them
all that aspect when you put the
steering wheel in his hand and
he asked him to go find some
tunas I think he's a little bit
out to lunch
what about the leadership
element is it something you've
dealt with i know this year is
trying to learn how to be a
leader on the boat for me I
tried to mold Travis this year
and for me it's all about just I
do my job and he does his job
and everything will be ok it
seems like Paul is trying to do
too much you know he's trying to
like catch too many tunes we can
you just focus on catching one
fish and start their get the
crew to come together get
everyone on the boat of the same
page and then maybe you'll get
hot and catching fish TJ you had
some of the same
I mean you guys have had some
different roles on your boat
your dad or the late so you know
as some guys can handle the
pressure some guys can and
nothing against Paul I think
he's a great fisherman a great
asset to a boat but it does not
look like he can handle the
pressure
there's no doubt about I mean
it's not as crews fault you know
it's his decision to put these
guys on fish and it's their job
to work when the rod bends they
can only do so much with that
rod doesn't been ok if not a lot
of doubt on your boat about who
the captain's well yeah
yeah and it you know i think
part of the field ball to right
is that's part of the learning
curve because being the captain
you know doesn't make you God
right you have a leader you call
the shots but you still need the
team to work with you know
that's essential and I think you
know Paul struggling without a
little bit you know what I mean
just try to you know that
leadership we are ok we gotta do
this together but still with the
same . there is one guy who
makes the calls and who's
responsible for DJ question a
lot of your decisions i haven't
seen a lot of you may actually
think that's what you guys want
we have long and you really want
to toss go but sometimes real
simple but alright there's one
week left until the end of the
season it really does seem like
anyone in the top for the hard
merchandise fishing vessel
tuna.com pinwheel or hot too and
are all in it they all of the
chance of coming out on top so
guys let's start with you Tyler
what are you gonna do in these
final this final week the final
few days efficient to make sure
that your boat comes out on top
I'm gonna do everything that
paul hasn't been doing and I'm
gonna keep putting fish on the
deck of the boat
tjw I'm gonna pray the tuna
God's very very heavily that's
what honking it was a prayer
start with 0 tuna gods divided
sky the wind blows you look out
for the tuna guys on ya down so
I know they're up they're always
on there nothing but a flock of
birds above you need something
man
and then finally Dave you're in
the lead this is it this is
you're in a different spot
you've got to protect so how how
does your game plan different
change the LM not really much
you again we got here just by
doing what we do best just keep
ridin just keep going and
hopefully a lock holds out you
know some some guys say there's
no such thing is like I'll be
the first to admit yes you need
skill you need a good crew
that's crucial but at some point
luck plays a factor Dave on
the.com you don't think there's
any luck involved at all he'll
even tell you no such thing is
like I think that's a bunch of
we write a little bit of luck is
what got us to where we're at
and I'll be the first to it
first to admit I'd rather be
lucky than good any day the we
need to do they have a prevent
defense and fishing there's no
prevent is there is no way also
to make sure you sit on this
lead
no you look I'll do the best
hey kid we'll keep grinding but
you know ultimately my goal is
to catch as many as i can
whether it's the first you know
the most of the fleet of the
last of the fleet as long as
we've done is best weekend for
the year
that's what makes me happy
alright that's gonna do it for
us tonight big big thank you to
captain Tyler McLaughlin
pinwheel captain TJ out of Hot
Tuna and of course captain Dave
Marciano of hard merchandise you
can get your wicked tuna fix by
liking us on Facebook or follow
us on twitter to get some daily
updates next Sunday 9 o'clock
the two-hour season finale of
wicked tuna
we'll find out which boat ends
the season on top as champion
right after the finale next
sunday special LIVE edition of
reel talk is going to air on
national geographic channel the
captains and their mates will
all be there for that so make
sure to tune in thank you so
much for watching real talk
yeah